# Arduino Containers Demo

The purpose of this directory is to demonstrate the implementation of a cooperative overtaking scenario using the MechatronicUML Tool Suite and the code generation features of the extended platform-modeling approach.

For additional documentation, consult https://github.com/SQA-Robo-Lab/MUML-CodeGen-Wiki. 

The subdirectories contain the generated code and the required manual adaptions, as explained in the following.

## APImappings

The method stubs are created as part of the Arduino Container Code generator. Their implementation was not generated using the ApiML and ApiMappingML, but implemented manually using the robotCarLibs.

## components4Arduino

This directory contains all the code generated by the C Component Type Code Generation

However, the component type code requires some adaptions at the moment to be built for the Arduino environment:
* All files (except two, see next) were removed from their directories and collected in one main directory. Thus, all include paths were adjusted.
* The files **not copied** from the component type code are: ```lib/standardTypes.h``` (```types/standardTypes.h``` is used instead) and ```lib/clock.h``` (the ```clock.h``` file from the container code generation is used instead)
* In the ```...Component_Interface.h``` files: The ```clock.h``` file was pulled up to be outside of the ```extern "C" {...}``` part!
* In the ```robotCarPowerTrainOpRep.h```, which contains the operation repository method stub definitions, the ```lineFollower.h``` robot car lib is inlcuded, and in the ```robotCarPowerTrainOpRep.h``` it is used to implement the method stubs.

## mosquitto

The generated Docker configuration for starting up a mosquitto MQTT Sever, see ```README.txt```.

## robotCarLibs

The robot car libraries to implement the device functionality, see https://github.com/SQA-Robo-Lab/Arduino-Car as LineFollowerLibs.

## README.txt

The README file generated by the Arduino Container Code generator.

## The other directories

The other directories contain the code generated by the Arduino Container Code generator. The container code provides the environment for the component code to be executed. To enable the build using the Arduino tools, the following files were copied into each of the four ECU directories:
* The ```APImappings``` code.
* The ```components4Arduino``` code. When copied into the respective ECU directories, the values for the ```desiredVelocity``` and ```slowVelocity``` can be set individually in the ```driveControlDriveControlComponentStateChart.c``` of the ```...DriverECU``` directories.
* The ```robotCarLibs``` as they are included by the above code.
* In the main files of the Driver ECUs: The initialization functions of the robotCarLibs have to be added manually, i.e., 
    ```
    initializeDistanceSensors();
    initLineFollower();
    ```
    The reason is, that the initilization of devices is currently not supported by the the code generation.

Instead of copying all code, it is sufficient to copy the required files, i.e., the coordinator ECUs only needs the coordinatorComponent and no APImappings, and the fastCarDriver needs the ```...F...``` APImappings, the operation repostiories, and all the other components.

Furthermore, each directory contains configurations for VisualStudio Code with the Arduino and C/C++ extensions. Thus, the code for the four ECU directories can be built either with the Arduino IDE or VisualStudio Code.